# Tools

This directory contains additional tools that are not necessary to run
or build Astrometry.net, but might still be useful.

## `add-distractors.sh`
Adds distractors to an image.
Size and amount of these distractors are configurable.
Optionally, an image file to be used as a distractor can be supplied.
A file specifying the positions of the distractors can also be supplied.

This can be useful to automatically generate test data to test the resilience
of Astrometry.net against images with lots of distractors.

Usage: `add-distractors.sh
    ( <DOT-SIZE> | <DOT-SRC-FILE> )
    ( <NUM-DISTRACTORS> | <DISTRACTORS-POS-FILE> )
    <SRC-IMG> <DEST-IMG>`

When the first argument is an integer, it is used as the size,
in pixels, of the distractors. In this case, the distractors are white dots -
more specifically, radial gradients, which means they are fully opaque at their
centre while fading into full transparency on the outside.
When the first argument is not an integer, it is used as the path
to the image that will be overlaid onto the original image
instead of the white dots.

When the second argument is an integer, it is used as the amount of distractors
to add to the image.
In this case, the positions of the distractors are generated randomly.
When the second argument is not an integer, it is used as the path
to the file specifying the positions of the distractors.
In this case, each line in the file will cause a distractor to be placed.
Lines must have the format `([+][0-9]+){2}`.
For example, the line `+500+200` would place a distractor at X 500 Y 200.

### Prerequisites:
- [ImageMagick](https://imagemagick.org/) for the `convert` command
- `/dev/urandom`

### Examples:
- `tools/add-distractors.sh 12 32
demo/apod5.jpg demo/apod5-with-distractors.png`
- `tools/add-distractors.sh 12 tools/add-distractors-demo-positions.txt
demo/apod5.jpg demo/apod5-with-distractors.png`

The script is POSIX compatible.

## `benchmark.sh`
Executes `solve-field` on a bunch of files that match a specified pattern
in a specified directory, gathers a bunch of statistics about them,
and writes those to a specified output file in JSON.

Usage: `benchmark.sh <DIR> <NAME-SCHEME> <DOWNSAMPLE-DEGREE> <SCALE-LOW> <SCALE-HIGH> <CPULIMIT> <OUT-FILE>`

Example: `benchmark.sh ../demo "*.jpg" 2 0 999999 30 ../demo/statistics.json`

`<DOWNSAMPLE-DEGREE>`, `<SCALE-LOW>`, `<SCALE-HIGH>` and `<CPULIMIT>` are
passed as the `--downsample`, `--scale-low`, `--scale-high` and `--cpulimit`
arguments of `solve-field`, respectively.

Per file, it gathers the following statistics:
- `solved`: Whether the file has been solved
- `time` (if solved): The time it took for the image to be solved
- `nsrc`: The number of sources extracted from the image
- `ncorr` (if solved): The number of correspondences, 
    i.e. sources that could be mapped to objects present in the index,
    i.e. stars recognized in the image
- `nbrighter` (if solved): The number of sources that are not correspondences,
    but are brighter than the dimmest correspondence found

The output file also contains the
`downsample`, `scale-low`, `scale-high` and `cpulimit` fields,
as well as the number of images that could and could not be solved
(`solved` and `notsolved`), as well as
the average time the solved images took (`avgtime`).

The script currently depends on the precise console output from `solve-field`,
so it is fragile, but it works for now.

This script is not POSIX compatible
because it uses `shopt -s lastpipe` and `$EPOCHREALTIME`.

## `clean.sh`

Removes all files automatically generated by `solve-field`,
such as `.axy` or `.solved` files.

Usage: `clean.sh <PATH> <FILE-PREFIX>`

This script removes all files that begin with the given file prefix
and match the naming scheme of files automatically generated by Astrometry.net,
so **be careful!**

POSIX compatible.
